they have a mirror here have a chain
here in the neck and the I are in late I
start to collate in Cuba around 1976 in
that time I start with sang
archaeological material from from Cuba
and eventually I was able to found some
tribal material from the Africans and
other partly all the work I was always
in fad way with the idea the drawing of
the planing people this particular
corner here we have different issue this
is a courting thing this is a religious
thing and this is a war thing here and
this one he say guy who was surrounded
by the the soldiers he is completely
again like a cliff he can escape but
apparently he was able to survive
because he made this drawing right and
that to descry the that's it wish and I
recognized the thing like one my
principal influence beside the training
what I received in the Western tradition
I training myself looking in tribal art
we are here in the search of the African
material and I have particularly
interesting the Indian kisses they were
in kissimmee in Congo terms like a power
object a powerful object
I like this particularly group because
he's not only a carving is also half a
lot of details painting on the mass and
it's very pictorial and graphic in the
same way you can see the many arepa
color of the people from the avant-garde
like Picasso many others I take notes
you know I I make my war is always like
that to be the place to be to receive
the painting straight from the field
work and collecting objects I call a
torture I take picture I take notes I
make sketches and with all the magic I
came back and prove my own work
oh yeah buying my clothes just came back
from the Holy Week in northern Mexico
Sierra Madre he said it's a dairy is the
community of kora Indian also know like
not Yeti people and they performing the
ceremony in some particularly way
because they mix it up the the Catholic
tradition with a prince panat tradition
and they worry math in with the
incarnation of the evil characters in
the running around the town yeah I know
only Colette the mass I also take
picture and I take notes and it makes
sketches life for the future world and
this is essentially what I do there
normally you know it takes quick sketch
of the people using the mess and running
around the town and this is one of the
characters it's like a wild dog and this
is the caridy how they help they move
the mess on top of the head and they
walk around the town like this yeah this
is the way how they rest in the one they
are not performing the carrot or the
evil cat that they put the mask right on
top of the head like a helmet that one
particular look quite similar of this
and a Pacific I tried to emulate with
certain solution artistic solution what
I like for example something like that
for me is very brave you know I had to
be brave enough to combine this kind of
color in that way you know and they feel
completely free to do this kind of thing
we have other kind of pre concept to
done that particularly gringo supposed
to be attaching with that yellow so for
me that that particularly kind of
solution are teach me many things you
know for my own work now I am completely
adapted with that but some people walk
inside and say wow how you can live with
this thing around you but I love it is
because of for me in like those are
generally like a open books it's like a
personal library where I check in books
but this book is no book there are audio
every day they teach me sunset sometime
I found something after I look him many
times but I never see from the beginning
maybe I never saw from the wind so for
me it's important to live surrounded by
these things
you